# Through Your Smile


Through Your Smile By Steven Wyks

Through Your Smile is a speculative design project that explores surveillance and the potential for governments and corporations to use cameras and our devices to monitor us. This piece combines this concept with the potential for this technology to be utilized to perpetuate inequality and unjust punishments. This piece is intended to make people think about how such a society would function and to critically examine the society today that we live in and where our respective nations handle issues of privacy and reputation. My project seeks to force viewers to think about present-day technologies like facial recognition technology, internet surveillance, etc. and how an effective and safe system could be used to regulate the internet and our everyday lives in the present and in the future. 
	
This project is a prototype for how this technology might work. Civilians would use their laptops or phones, and at a set interval their faces’ expressions will be analyzed to see whether they are happy or not, assessing their reputation. This is intended to be an arbitrary and absurd way to measure citizens’ reputations, showing a dystopian way that this technology could be used. There are two interfaces: one with the camera and the expression analyzer, while the other displays the latest person in front of the camera along with their social credit score and punishments/rewards given their standing. I researched these punishments and rewards, and used examples from China’s social credit system. Some examples include their ability to travel, access to higher education, internet speed, gas taxation and access to certain medicines.The first screen is intended to be the interface on the user's computer, which will not be visible as they use their computers. While the second is intended to be used by the government or corporation that would be monitoring citizens and their scores. 

Because I do not intend for the webcam interface to be visible to the citizens, I did not style it at all. The webcam interface simply acts as visible proof that the program works. On the other hand, I designed the second interface to match with a hypothetical computer on their system, displaying the computer number as well as the information of the person that was previously captured in the webcam. I designed this to be simple with a prominent picture of the  person in the frame to the left, and their details. I changed the font to one that is present in the VS Code text editor to evoke a more computer or technological style to the page. Overall I am quite happy with the design of the page, and did not feel a strong desire to design it heavily because the use of the product would be quite discreet according to the concept. 

This project was built with the API Face.js. I followed a tutorial on how to use specific pictures along with the expression and face recognizer. I then integrated this with the feed from my webcam, along with a database created with Node.js. The most difficult part of this was figuring out how to use the webcam along with the face recognizer and emotion detector. I had to figure out the proper javascript methods to properly do this so I feel like I learned more about web development. The database was also challenging to create and use, but the methods I was using were simple to understand.  I feel like I could have been more efficient in sorting through the data to find the name values that I was looking for. The database adds the latest person in the frame along with their score, while the other interface displays the latest score and personal information by sorting through the database for the latest entries. This was the final feature I implemented. Depending on the person’s current social credit score, a different list of punishments/rewards will be displayed. I chose the number 3000 to be a “average” social credit score, while anything below 2900 is poor and anything above 3100 is good.
